You
I’d like to optimize the meme builder on overhype.me. Let me start by explaining what the whole purpose of the meme builder is and what I want to optimize for. The meme builder is a fun way to take a “fact” from the database and personalize it to the user. The value of the meme is that it takes the fact and visualizes it in a shareable way that is personalized to the user. I’ve created fallback methods of meme generation including the ability to simply use a gradient background or a stock image, but those should be fallbacks that are used as a last resort for users who don’t want their picture to be used. There are two meme types that we can create. The first is an image meme. The way that works is that we define a background image (typically the user’s picture) and then we compose the words on top of it. I’ve added a ton of functionality for moving the words around so they work well with the background image, not covering critical parts and with the ability to change fonts and style. The meme can exist in three different aspect ratios including landscape, square, and portrait. The reason for all the customization on the background and words is that it gives users full control over the final output. Another wrinkle of the image meme is that there’s an ability to create an AI generated background based on the users image or based on a generic description. These are super fun and we should think about how those custom AI generated backgrounds are incorporated. We probably should promote the “create an AI image of yourself based on this fact” as a big piece of the value. This functionality will be gated behind the paywall. Once the AI image has been generated, we can use it to be the background of a meme. Right now, generating the AI image and building the meme are baked together as part of a single process. Let’s think about that and optimize it. The second part of the meme builder is the video meme builder which generates a video based on an image. Right now, the base image can be a stock photo, the user’s photo, or an AI generated background that the user generated. We need to tighten up that flow because it’s not clear to the user how to best create a fun video. The primary flow should really be that they use the AI image generator to generate a base image, then they use the Video generator to animate that image. Maybe we just do it for them as one step on the backend but then that removes their ability to customize how they want the image generated. The default should easily get them a fun AI animated video of them in an extreme version of the fact so I like the “generate AI image → feed that into the image to video AI engine” flow. Once the image meme is generated, there should be a way to share it with all your socials as well as the ability to turn it into merch. Once the Video meme is generated, there should be a way to share it with all your socials but there’s no concept of turning it into merch. Future functionality could be to pull a frame from the video to use for merch but it may not be high resolution enough. All of this needs to be considered for both desktop and mobile interfaces and optimized for each.